README.md, before:

# devops-starter

A quick way to add devops related tooling to projects. 

## Getting started

Get the setup file for the kind of project you are starting. For example for node projects:

```sh
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mtbvang/devops-starter/master/setup-node.sh
chmod +x setup-node.sh
./setup-node.sh <projectname> <portoffset>
```

'./setup-node.sh test-app 1' will result in a node application running on port 1338. Look at the setup-node.sh file for details of other arguments. 

The <portoffset> allows you to map multiple host machine ports to the one port number that the application run on on the guest container.

Start the containers.

```sh
vagrant up --no-parallel
```

Get the container names.

```sh
vagrant status
```

You can ssh into them using the names listed in the vagrant status command.

```sh
vagrant ssh <projectname>-app
```

## Manually adding submodule

The setup-node.sh script runs the following commands to add this starter as a submodule.

```sh
git submodule add https://github.com/mtbvang/devops-starter.git devops
git submodule update --init --recursive
git submodule foreach --recursive git pull origin master  
```

## Creating application

After vagrant ssh'ing into the <projectname>-app container create the application project using the relevant script to scaffold out the project.

### Node (Sails, Reactjs)

The standard node stack 'm using is Sails + Reactjs. Run the setup script to scaffold the application.

```sh
cd /vagrant
```

## Working with git submodules

The submodule is it's own repo/work-area, with its own .git directory.

So, first commit/push your submodule's changes:

```sh
cd path/to/submodule
git add <stuff>
git commit -m "comment"
git push
```
Then tell your main project to track the updated version:

```sh
cd /main/project
git add path/to/submodule
git commit -m "updated my submodule"
git push
```

To push all submodules in one go from the parent repo:

```sh
git push --recurse-submodules=on-demand
```

### Git commands to work with submodules
  
```sh
git submodule add <repo path> [folder name]

git submodule update --init --recursive

git submodule foreach --recursive git fetch
git submodule foreach git merge origin master
or
git submodule foreach --recursive git pull origin master (is equivalent to a fetch and then merge)

git pull --recurse-submodules=on-demand
git push --recurse-submodules=on-demand
git submodule foreach --recursive git checkout master
```

Commit message:

Updated readme and updated vagrant submodule to latest.

README.md, after:

# devops-starter

A quick way to add devops related tooling to projects. 

## Getting started

Get the setup file for the kind of project you are starting. For example for node projects:

```sh
curl -O https:// raw.githubusercontent.com/mtbvang/devops-starter/master/setup-node.sh
chmod +x setup-node.sh
./setup-node.sh <projectname> <portoffset>
```

'./setup-node.sh test-app 1' will result in a node application running on port 1338. Look at the setup-node.sh file for details of other arguments. 

The <portoffset> allows you to map multiple host machine ports to the one port number that the application run on on the guest container.

Start the containers.

```sh
vagrant up --no-parallel
```

Get the container names.

```sh
vagrant status
```

You can ssh into them using the names listed in the vagrant status command.

```sh
vagrant ssh <projectname>-app
```

## Manually adding submodule

The setup-node.sh script runs the following commands to add this starter as a submodule.

```sh
git submodule add https:// github.com/mtbvang/devops-starter.git devops
git submodule update --init --recursive
git submodule foreach --recursive git pull origin master  
```

## Creating application

After vagrant ssh'ing into the <projectname>-app container create the application project using the relevant script to scaffold out the project.

### Node (Sails, Reactjs)

The standard node stack 'm using is Sails + Reactjs. Run the setup script to scaffold the application.

```sh
cd /vagrant
```

## Working with git submodules

The submodule is it's own repo/work-area, with its own .git directory.

So, first commit/push your submodule's changes:

```sh
cd path/to/submodule
git add <stuff>
git commit -m "comment"
git push
```
Then tell your main project to track the updated version:

```sh
cd /main/project
git add path/to/submodule
git commit -m "updated my submodule"
git push
```

To push and pull all submodules in one go from the parent repo that contains the submodules. Note these commands do not retrieve the latest head from the origin master. They retrieve

```sh
git pull --recurse-submodules=on-demand
git push --recurse-submodules=on-demand
```

### Updating git submodules in projects and pushing to origin master

After cloning the repository containing your submodules, the following command will checkout the master branch of all submodules in one go:

```sh
git submodule foreach --recursive git checkout master
```

To get the 
```sh
git submodule foreach git pull origin master
```
This is supposed to be equivalent to these two commands in git version > 1.7.3

```sh
git pull --recurse-submodules
git submodule update --recursive
```

### Git commands to work with submodules
  
```sh
git submodule add <repo path> [folder name]

git submodule update --init --recursive

git submodule foreach --recursive git fetch
git submodule foreach git merge origin master
or
git submodule foreach --recursive git pull origin master (is equivalent to a fetch and then merge)

git pull --recurse-submodules=on-demand
git push --recurse-submodules=on-demand
git submodule foreach --recursive git checkout master
```
